# History of react state
- class only with experimental global
- Flux
- Redux builds upon flux. They are separate projects often used with react. (not covered in course).
- Function components that were stateless
- ContextApi was added - for sharing state between components
- Hooks - almost everything with function components

State is app data that can change over time

### 8 ways to handle state:
0. store environment variables setting. Don't change at runtime. ie `REACT_APP_BASE_URL`
1. URL - store state in url ie current item, filter, pagination, sorting settings. Supports deep linking. Dont use storing prefs in app. React router is used for this
2. Web storage - cookies, localStorage, IndexedDb. Tied to single browser, and avoid storing sensitive data. ie. shoping cart, partially completed form data.
3. Local component state - ie. forms, toggles, list
4. Lifted state - when multiple components use same data. State is lifted to parent and sent to child.
5. Derived state - Derive state from existing state props. Like length, ifErrorsExist. Avoids out of sync bugs and simplifies code.
6. Refs - Used for uncontrolled components, Dom element reference. Also for interfacing for nonReact libraries. State that isnt displayed like if component mounted, hold timer, store previous state.
7. Context - Avoids prop drilling. Use global, broad state and functions. Logged user, Auth setting, theme, internation settings
8. Thirds party state - General: Redux, Mobx, Recoil. Remote state: react-query, Swr, Relay, Apollo

### JavaScript Data Structures
1. Primitives
- Boolean
- String
- Number
- BigInt
- Symbol
2. Collections
- Objects
- Array
- Map - LinkedHashMap, remember order of adding
- Set - HashedSet, only unique
There is also weak Map and Set, which remove any item that doesnt have outside reference.

# Managing Local and Remote state
Every app needs to do two tasks, store locale data that changes over time and fetch data from remote server. In this module
- Async calls
- Loading state
- Error handling
- Promises and async/await
- Custom Hooks
- Use mostly function components

03-before
```
npm install
npm start
```

point free style
kada ne prosledis objekat preko lambde nego pustis da samo poveze u map funkciji
SKU - Stock keeping unit in commerce

hooks must be declared at root of compoennt, cant be in if or in method
So that hooks are run in the same order during render
If you need condition than inside the hook

controlled and uncontrolled component
is react controlling the value through the state
onChange prop

u syntetic value
debugger;
to trigger in browser

React developer tools

React renders when
- state changes
- prop changes
- parent renders
- context changes

4 images

Leave
Environment variables
potrajace da se kreiraju funkcije